== EndecaOnDemand
----

This Endeca On-Demand Web API gem will take a query-string and construct an XML query and send it to an hosted Endeca On-Demand Cluster. It will then parse the response and expose an API for using the response data.

NOTE: Due to the implementation specific requirements used while creating this gem, I know there are missing features. If you find issues, or can provide me with any specifics about your implementation, I can add more support.

=== What I would like to see:
* Information reguarding the JSON equivelent of this implementation so I can add JSON support
* Information reguarding filters, to enhance this functionality
* Additional advanced parameters

=== Features
* Provides an easy way for you to use the Thanx Media, Endeca On-Demand Web API
* Builds an XML query from a query-string, formatted for the Endeca On-Demand Service
* Handles the Endeca On-Demand response XML and exposes methods to use response data
---

=== Install
==== Rails

Add this line to your Gemfile:

 gem 'endeca_on_demand'

Then bundle install:

 bundle install


==== Non Rails

 gem install endeca_on_demand

---

=== Usage
EndecaOnDemand constructs an XML query to send to a hosted Endeca On-Demand Cluster, via a query string:
NOTE: This is a complete example. Any unneeded option should not be included in the query-string

  <a href='www.example.com/example/catalog?search-key=primary&search-term=name&DimensionValueIds=1,2,3,4&sort-key=name&sort-direction=descending&RecordOffset=0&RecordsPerPage=9&AggregationKey=name&UserProfiles=1,2,3,4&filter=between'>FULL ENDECA REQUEST</a>
  
The following is an example of an empty 'options' hash that would then need to be constructed from a query-string:
NOTE: The base options and current category are set manually and not via a query-string

  options = {
              'add_base'                          => {'RecordsSet' => true, 'Dimensions' => true, 'BusinessRulesResult' => true, 'AppliedFilters' => true},
              'add_keyword_search'                => {},
              'add_dimension_value_id_navigation' => [],
              'add_category_navigation_query'     => "current_category_id",
              'add_sorting'                       => {},
              'add_paging'                        => {},
              'add_advanced_parameters'           => {},
              'add_profiles'                      => [],
              'add_filters'                       => {}
            }
            
The following is what a prepared 'options' hash would look like (using the above example query-string):
NOTE: This is a complete example. It is not necessary to include anything that you don't need, or you may choose to include it and just leave it blank.

  options = {
              'add_base'                          => {'RecordsSet' => true, 'Dimensions' => true, 'BusinessRulesResult' => true, 'AppliedFilters' => true},
              'add_keyword_search'                => {'searh-key => 'key', search-term => 'term'},
              'add_dimension_value_id_navigation' => [1, 2, 3, 4],
              'add_category_navigation_query'     => 1,
              'add_sorting'                       => {'sort-key' => 'key', 'sort-direction' => 'Descending'},
              'add_paging'                        => {'RecordOffset' => 0, 'RecordsPerPage' => 9},
              'add_advanced_parameters'           => {'AggregationKey' => 'key'},
              'add_profiles'                      => [1, 2, 3, 4],
              'add_filters'                       => {}
            }
            
Provide the location of your hosted Endeca On-Demand Cluster (this can be set as a variable or passed directly as a parameter)

  host = 'your/EndecaOnDemand/hosted/cluster'

Pass your 'host' and 'options' hash to new EndecaOnDemand

  @endeca = EndecaOnDemand.new(host, options)
  
All of the following have been exposed as part of the API, most of them will also have sub api methods available which will become visible with a .inspect on the object:
  
  @endeca.records
  @endeca.breadcrumbs
  @endeca.filtercrumbs (Filtercrumbs are breadcrumbs that have been tailored for use as left nav filterables)
  @endeca.dimensions
  @endeca.rules
  @endeca.search_reports
  @endeca.keyword_redirect
  @endeca.selected_dimension_value_ids

I also exposed some 'debug'-ish type options to the API so you can see a little of what your request/response looks like if your not getting back the results your expecting
  
  @endeca.uri
  @endeca.http
  @endeca.base
  @endeca.query
  @endeca.raw_response
  @endeca.response
  @endeca.error

Below is an example of how you could access the response data:

  - @endeca.records.each do |record|
    puts "----- RECORD: #{record.inspect}"
  
Each object will then have associated instance variables exposed that will allow you directly call any value on that object:

  - @endeca.records.each do |record|
    puts "----- RECORD NAME: #{record.p_name}"
  
---

=== F.A.Q
* Q: I'm getting a response error saying something about multiple values for model Category
* A: You are most likely trying to pass a CategoryId (CID) with DimensionValueId(s) (DVID) that don't match. The DVIDs must belong to the category passed as the CID.
---

=== TODO
* [X] More detail on breadcrumbs (and their suggested use as left nav filters)
* Build in support for filters
* Add tests
* I don't have all the possible advanced parameters, so for now it only handles the default 'AggregationKey'
* Search needs some more testing. Currently its only been setup with a basic search, so I'm not aware of what additional parameters might be coming in, and how I may need to handle them
* [X] Review the classes and create any additional classes that might be useful where only an instance variable currently exists
* I would love it if this could server for both XML and JSON (and whatever additional formats they offer)
---

=== CONTACT
Please contact me with any question, bugs, additions, suggestions, etc.
---

=== Copyright
Copyright (c) 2011 Steve Domino. See LICENSE.txt for further details